Student Highlight: Week 1
Interviewing Sophomore, Aryan Gupta (he/him)
By Annika Bai


About Aryan    


Meet Aryan Gupta, Sophomore at TIDE Academy. Aryan was born in Sydney, Australia, and lived in Canberra for 6 years. He later moved to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and lived there for 4 years before coming to California at the age of 10. He has one older brother, 21 years old, who is an inspiration for Aryan because of his persistence during adverse situations. Specifically, his brother’s ability to acclimate to new societies and cultures is something that Aryan wants to learn from and build into his skillset as well. 
We asked Aryan what he is working on outside of school as extracurriculars. It turns out, he does badminton, chorus, designs apps, plays the piano, and works on college readiness. Below is an in-depth look about each of his out-of-school activities he enjoys doing. 
[top left image shows Aryan at the very left, next to brother, and parents]




Badminton:
Outside of school and running the Netflix Discord Club on Tuesdays, Aryan plays varsity badminton at Synergy. He is looking to win the next tournament once COVID-19 is over. At TIDE, he was a member of last year’s badminton team; played against Woodside High School. He is planning to participate this year, as well. 


Chorus:
Aryan sings in Ragazzi Boys Chorus as part of the Young Men’s Ensemble group and as a Choral Scholar. Over the summer, he pioneered and volunteered to help with new software,a Virtual Studio, which allows choristers to sing in unison over the internet without any latency issues (delay/lag in audio). With the help of this software, Ragazziis the first choir in the world to be able to rehearse remotely  over 50 kids successfully singing together.  
 Aryan’s most memorable performance was in San Francisco when his group sang Northern Lights, because they were able to deeply and emotionally touch the audience. 


SustainableChoice
In addition to developing a software system for his choir last summer, Aryan also completed an internship with PilotCity and the City of East Palo Alto. Their goal was to develop a community outreach strategy to increase the engagement of EPA residents. Aryan and his partner, Solomon Cornell, designed an app, SustainableChoice, through this internship (instagram: sustainable_choice.co). SustainableChoice helps customers make better decisions when it comes to everyday life by giving easy access to environmental information. Users scan a product and the app tells them its most harmful aspects. SustainableChoice also directs the user in a more green direction, giving them options for products that are better for the environment. For example, if you scan a burger, SustainableChoice will tell you that it took 660 gallons of water to produce, required 594 square feet of habitat loss, and caused 6.8 lbs of greenhouse gas emissions. Then, the app will suggest a sustainable alternative like an Impossible Burger or any plant-based veggie burger. Aryan and Solomon are currently working with 4 other companies to grow the app and hopefully get it into your hands by early 2021.   


Et Cetera, et cetera
The list goes on... he plays the piano as well and is currently studying for the Level 4 ABRSM examination.